The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Battle of the Bells, by Jerome Bixby

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Battle of the Bells

Author: Jerome Bixby

Release Date: September 27, 2021 [eBook #66393]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

Produced by: Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed
             Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BATTLE OF THE BELLS ***




               Charley's practical joke was usually good
           for a laugh when a city feller made a rest stop;
           but it also aroused heavenly concern and began--

                        The Battle of the Bells

                            By Jerome Bixby

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
              Imagination Stories of Science and Fantasy
                            September 1954
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


It would happen maybe once or twice a week--never much more. Because
things had to be just right.

For example, it had to be daytime for it to work. At night, nobody was
likely to notice the chain hanging down with the handle on the end of
it.

And naturally the victims had to be city folk. Had to be used to just
reaching up and grabbing and pulling without a thought. Because when
you stop to think about it, a chain like that in a place like that is
about the most unlikely thing in the world.

But it worked--it worked often enough to bring grins to the faces of
any men who were around at the time, and enough to make the town women
sometimes a little cool toward Charley Mason when they went in to buy
things at his store. Because it was strictly a man's joke, and he was
the man.

       *       *       *       *       *

Owensville is a small town in western Pennsylvania. It sits low in one
end of a green-sided valley, just a few frame houses and stores strung
along a main street ... and that main street is on the one and only
road that leads through the valley: a road that all the maps show to be
a convenient and dependable connection between the Penn Turnpike and
several other major routes, should you be heading south.

So a lot of people drive through Owensville every week--upwards of two
hundred or so. And there's always one or two of them in the mood to
spend a little time in a restroom--the last Howard Johnson's is twenty
miles back along the Turnpike, and the road down into the valley is a
bumpy one besides, and you know what that does to your innards.

So they come driving around the bend under the trees and their car
wheels thump across the old wooden bridge across Miller's Creek--and
once in a while one of them would pull off the road into the yard
beside Charley Mason's General Store because they'd spot his
crescent-doored outhouse standing there. Charley always kept it painted
up so it'd be easier to see--clean white with a red roof--and over
the door he'd lettered, big enough to see from the bridge, PUBLIC
RESTROOM.

Then somebody'd get out of the car and go in, and a few minutes later
the chain that came up through the roof would yank down as whoever was
inside reached up and pulled the handle.

And then the big old cowbell on the roof--the biggest and noisiest
Charley'd been able to find--would dance around in the mounting he'd
made out of an angle-iron, and go _Blongle, blongle, blok!_

After a minute the door'd open and the city folk would come out,
looking puzzled and kind of sneaky. They'd give a glance up at the roof
and see the cowbell mounted there. Some of them might grin at the way
they'd been had. But mostly they'd get into their car and drive off
maybe a little faster'n they would've ordinarily.

If it was a woman, it was five times as funny. Because some of the
older men were always sitting around on the porch of Charley's store
playing pinochle, or lounging down by the bridge just talking, and
when the woman would come out they'd all grin at her and those who had
mustaches might twiddle them a bit, and she'd get redder'n a bushel of
tomatoes.

Women drove off faster'n anybody, usually.

Some townspeople said it wasn't a very good way to advertise Owensville
to passersby. But Charley said that a town of thirty-two people didn't
have to worry about advertising one way or the other--it just needed
diversion. And since it was on his property, the cowbell stayed up.

It was just a gag. It never really hurt anybody. Charley, who could
incline to philosophy when it suited him, said that the only person it
could hurt was somebody who was plain ashamed of being human. And, on
the personal side, he admitted he got a kick out of seeing them all
flustered up that way.

Probably the outhouse and the bell'd still be there, and Charley'd
still be getting his laughs, if the fat lady in the green convertible
hadn't decided to do some praying.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a late July afternoon, and plenty hot. The sun was reflecting
like yellow-green fire off the hills around, and everybody was sitting
in the shade.

Charley Mason and Sam Knudson were sitting on the store porch playing
gin, and Luke Yates was just coming up the steps, when they heard a car
approaching.

Charley and Sam paused in their game and Luke turned his gray head to
look.

"Maybe this time," Charley said.

Luke Yates studied the dust cloud moving toward town above the tops of
the trees.

"Coming pretty fast," he said. "Bet they drive right on through."

"A dollar," said Charley. "You bounce harder when you drive fast."

"It's on," said Luke.

Waiting, Charley Mason leaned back in his chair and half-closed his
eyes, a lean, bald man in shirt-sleeves, the hand holding his cards
relaxed in his lap. They could hear the murmur of the creek carrying
away the runoff from last night's rain, and the air was sweet with the
breath of the fields off down the valley.

"Rich man," said Charley, looking across the yard at his outhouse,
"poor man, beggar man, thief. In there, you're all alike in the eyes of
God, I guess."

Sam Knudson nodded thoughtfully. "In the eyes of _something_, at any
rate."

"All alike," said Luke Yates.

"Can't see your wallet from _there_," Charley said.

"Your brains either," said Luke.

After a moment, Charley said, "Some people's brains, maybe."

They all nodded.

A green convertible driven by a fat woman came around the bend,
trailing dust, and rattled across the bridge.

"New York license plates," Luke said, squinting.

"Yep," said Charley.

"Maybe she'll bite."

"If she stops," Charley said, "maybe she will."

       *       *       *       *       *

The green convertible swerved off the road and pulled to a halt beside
the store. The fat lady got out and looked around for a moment,
blinking in the sun. She saw the three old men up on the porch and
seemed to hesitate. Then she went around the back of the car and headed
for the outhouse, walking a little defiantly, head up, her steps steady
and deliberate.

The men exchanged glances. Luke handed Charley a dollar bill.

"Do her some good, maybe," Charley said. "Shy type."

"Like we didn't know how it was," Sam said, shaking his head.

"Or maybe," Charley said, "because we do. Funny."

Luke sat down on the bottom-most step and scuffed the dirt of the yard
with a toe. They watched the cowbell atop the outhouse, and listened to
the murmur of the creek, and heard a bird sing in the big elm out back
of the store, and waited.

The chain that came up through the outhouse roof yanked down.

The cowbell went _Blongle, blongle, blok!_

Charley puffed his pipe in satisfaction. Luke and Sam grinned. They
waited for the fat lady to emerge.

When she did, a moment later, it was looking puzzled as usual--but
there was a difference. She stalked ten feet away from the outhouse,
about-faced, and stared up at the cowbell. The men saw the back of her
neck get red and redder still. Then she turned and came toward the
porch. Her eyes were narrowed, her hands were clenched into fists, her
mouth was a determined slash.

She marched across the yard and stood facing the three men on the
porch. She put her fists on her hips and glared.

Luke and Sam stopped grinning. Charley's pipe drooped.

The sun beat down on the valley, the town, the yard, the outhouse,
the fat woman. Her brow was shiny with perspiration. She stood there,
turned her cold blue glare on one man after another, like you'd sweep a
gatling against enemy ranks.

Luke said uncomfortably, "Howdy, ma'am."

"You old lechers!" said the fat woman tightly.

Charley and Luke and Sam exchanged dismayed looks.

"Now, ma'am--" Charley began.

"Don't say anything, you old lechers," the fat woman spat. "I don't
want to hear your gloating, oily voices! Of all the lecherous,
salacious, lascivious things to do!"

"Why," Charley said doubtfully, "I guess we're a little old to be all
those things--"

"You're never too old to be evil-minded!" she snapped. "Even if your
bodies are too old for unGodliness!" Her positive and indicating gaze
raked them up and down, and she saw the cards which Charley held in his
lap.

"Playing cards, too!" she said, her lips curling. "Well, I guess _that_
follows!"

"Follows what, ma'am?" Luke asked puzzledly.

She saw the brown beer bottle resting on the box beside Charley's chair.

"_Alcohol!_" she hissed.

       *       *       *       *       *

She stood glaring up at them, her breath coming fast and shallow, in a
half-crouch that led Charley Mason to wonder if she planned to climb
right over the porch rail and lace into them physically.

Then, as they watched in wary silence, her anger seemed to abate a
little; over a period of five seconds her fists slowly unclenched, her
breath slowed, she straightened.

She said in a low voice, "It's the work of the Devil. Anger is not the
answer."

"The Devil, ma'am?" Charley asked.

"_He_ has made you do this--it is a device to keep lewd and licentious
thoughts uppermost in your minds and corrupt your immortal souls. I
suppose I shouldn't blame you for listening to him ... so _few_ of us
_are_ able to resist his honeyed mouthings."

"Ma'am," Luke said, "I don't think you should get so excited on a hot
day like this. Maybe a cold coke--"

"I'll pray," the fat lady said. "I'll pray for the Lord to undo this
Devil's work. I'll pray that your souls be cleansed of the evil
thoughts the Dark One has put there." Her pale blue eyes seemed a
trifle fixed, and now she smiled, looking through the men who watched
her worriedly. "I--I'm almost proud that I should have suffered this
humiliation in order to help Him in His work--it is a small price to
pay, to have been the object of your lustful thoughts, if I can save
your souls by telling the Lord what you are doing and seeing to it
that He stops you!"

She gave them a pitying, sympathetic look. "You hate me now," she said,
"but when you are pure you will thank me."

She turned away and walked toward her car, head bowed.

After a moment Luke got up from the steps and sank into a chair on the
porch. "Does lust mean what I think it means?" he asked.

"Guess it does," Charley said.

"Well, back when I _could_ lust, I wouldn't ever have lusted _her_."

They watched her get in and drive off, head still down in an attitude
of prayer, eyes up so she could drive. The car reached the other end of
the main street, followed the road into the trees, and vanished.

Charley stared contemplatively across the yard at his outhouse.

"Work of the Devil, huh?" he mused. "Well, now doesn't that beat all! I
bet Heaven would kick that prayer right out of court!"

"No," said a firm voice. "It was heard."

       *       *       *       *       *

The three old men turned and saw a tall, handsome, blond young man,
dressed in a neat and utterly clean white suit, standing in the
center of the yard. His face wore an expression of perfect peace and
abounding love.

Actually, he wasn't _quite_ standing in the yard yet. When they turned,
his feet were about four feet above the ground. As they watched, he
floated slowly down until he was standing straight, and tall and
smiling a little.

At that moment, _timelessness_ descended upon the scene--upon Charley
Mason's store, the yard, the outhouse. _Timelessness_ bounded the
area from one edge of Charley's yard to the other, and from the road
clear to the woods out back; and that _timelessness_ extended downward
to a perfect point at the very center of the Earth, and extended upward
in a perfect cone to Heaven; and within its boundaries nothing that
happened was visible to the outside world, or indeed even "happened"
so far as the outside world was concerned: for it all happened in
_timelessness_ ... in one of those particles of time-substance which
exists _between_ microseconds on Earth's time continuum: particles so
small that they are of use only to angels, who in their work must often
get between people and their intended deeds faster than seems possible.

The young man's calm eyes looked into the minds of the three old
men on the porch, and saw no evidence there of lewd or lascivious
thoughts of the magnitude reported by the fat lady in her prayer. This
did not surprise him, for exaggeration is the backbone of prayer, and
the Heavenly Workers are used to it. In particular are they used to
nuisances like the fat lady, who continually turn in false alarms.

Closing his eyes, the young man contacted his secretary-cherubim in
his office in Heaven. The cherubim immediately returned the dossiers
of Luke and Sam and Charley Mason to the Heavenly Files, with no
additional notations on the debit side.

That done--for nothing is so urgent in the eyes of Heaven as the latest
data on souls--the young man turned his attention to the outhouse.

He saw the cowbell, and his lips pursed.

He left the porch, walking lightly, and crossed the yard to the
outhouse. The three old men watched him dreamily, unmoving,
comprehending, gripped by _timelessness_ and a sense of wonder.

The young man opened the crescented door and went in. The chain yanked.
The cowbell went _Blongle, blongle, blok!_

The young man reappeared in the door and looked at the old men on the
porch. He pursed his lips again and shook his head reprimandingly. He
disappeared again.

A second later, the cowbell and chain and angle-iron disappeared too.

       *       *       *       *       *

The young man came out, dusting his hands with a white handkerchief. He
came back across the yard and mounted the steps. He seated himself on
the porch railing, where he could face the three old men.

"Shame on you," he said.

The men cast their eyes downward.

"The lady's accusations were somewhat excessive," the young man said.
"Your motives seem not to have been primarily lascivious, and I have so
informed Heaven. But still ... don't you think you should be ashamed of
yourselves?" He paused. "You may nod if you wish."

The men nodded, eyes dreamy.

"After all," the young man said, "isn't that rather a snide trick to
play on tired travelers who seek your hospitality?"

Charley Mason's mouth worked; his Adam's apple bobbed.

"Speak," said the young man.

"Gosh," Charley said in a low voice, "it was just a little joke. We
never had nothing else in mind--"

"I know," the young man said. "I have discounted that element. I am
speaking of the unkindness of the prank--the discomfiture which you
impose on its victims."

"Oh," said Charley. "I--gosh, it just embarrassed them a little bit,
that's all. I mean ... that's all, isn't it?"

"No," said the young man sternly, "there is more. Think a moment,
humans, upon that common structure in the yard ... think deeply, and
you will realize that there is much more to it than meets the eye."

"Guess so," mumbled Charley.

"It is a haven ... a place of wondrous solitude ... a refuge for those
who would contemplate without interruption, as many a weary traveler
yearns for."

"Guess so."

"In what other situation can you be so completely alone ... in a
perfect isolation not only permitted but sanctioned by your society?
Why, humans, I could tell you of the most extraordinary moments of
piety, of philosophical reflection, of artistic conception which we
have recorded as occurring under such circumstances...."

"I never thought of it that way, I guess," Charley said slowly. "I
always did sort of think it leveled you off, though."

The young man eyed them soberly.

"In late afternoon," he said, "in the confines of the rustic outhouse,
settled happily, hearing the quaint and natural sounds of the insects
in the field, the flutterings of birds from branch to branch ... do you
know that in this day it is the only waking place where one may flee
for the inner life?"

The old men looked down guiltily.

"It is ever a reminder of one's mortality," the young man said.

"It is Man in his true aristocratic state," he said.

"And yet at his most humble," he said.

"And now I will leave," he said. "I hope you have seen the light, and
will no longer impose your crude, cruel joke on those who trust you for
a moment's peace."

He stood up. "I hardly think that it was the work of the Devil,
however, as the lady seemed to think--"

A cloud seemed to come over the sun--but there were no clouds, so
perhaps the sun dimmed. The birds in the trees were suddenly silent.
Even the rustling leaves seemed to pause. It grew still darker, and a
chill breeze sprang up.

A head, whose face was dark and sharp and saturnine, appeared in the
center of the yard.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the young man and the three old men watched, a tall, dark, gaunt man
in a neatly tailored black suit rose from the ground and stood eying
them mockingly.

"Wasn't it?" he said in a thin, dry voice, and laughed.

The young man's lips tightened. He said nothing. The three old men were
shrunken back in their chairs, staring.

The Devil--or perhaps the man in black was only _part_ of the Devil,
for mysterious and complex are the ways he influences from his bronze
throne in the exact center of midwestern Gehenna--turned and sauntered
to the outhouse. He entered.

A moment later the cowbell and chain and angle-iron reappeared--though
not quite as they had been. The chain seemed a little heavier, the
cowbell a little larger and more shiny.

The chain was yanked. The cowbell went _Blongle, blongle, blok,
blok!_--a metallic sound of triumph.

The man in black came out smirking. He made his way across the yard and
mounted the porch steps. The young man frowned and lifted a shoulder so
the fabrics of their clothing would not touch.

The man in black went to the opposite end of the porch and sat down in
a chair there. He looked out over the bridge and the murmuring creek
and the trees beyond and took a pipe from a pocket. From another pocket
he took a live coal, which he dropped into the pipe. He puffed, and
sulphur-smell filled the air.

The young man got up, sighing and bracing his hands on his knees. He
stood for a moment regarding the man in black levelly. Then he went
down the steps and across the yard and into the outhouse.

Chain, cowbell and mounting vanished.

The man in black rose, still smiling. He passed the three old men,
trailing sulphur smoke from his pipe. They shrank back, eyes wide. He
went down into the yard and toward the outhouse.

When he was halfway there, the young man emerged. They locked eyes, the
young man's cool and determined, the other's hot and mocking and quite
as determined.

They passed each other, saying not a word.

As the young man reached the porch steps, there came from the outhouse
a loud _Blongle, blongle, blongle, blok, blok_, and he paused, one foot
on the steps, lips thinned. He seated himself deliberately, and only
then did he look around.

The new bell was twice as large as the former. The chain was heavier.
It hung from a heavy cast-iron mounting.

The man in black came out. He sauntered back to the porch and seated
himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Half a non-existent hour passed--non-existent, because it passed in
_timelessness_. The young man sat quietly, seeming to ponder; the
man in black sat as quietly, smoking his sulphur; the three old men
sat like mice, their eyes shuttling back and forth between the two
antagonists.

At last the young man got up and walked slowly to the outhouse. The
cowbell and its paraphernalia vanished. This time with a flash of white
light.

The man in black dropped a new lump of smoking sulphur into his pipe
and tamped it down with his thumb. He walked to the outhouse and
replaced the bell with a still bigger one. He yanked at the chain, and
raucous bellsound filled the yard.

He came back, and they sat around a while longer.

The young man went out. The new bell vanished with a flash like
diamond-blue lightning.

The man in black sauntered out. In an enormous mounting atop the
outhouse appeared a three-foot church bell.

Its chain yanked down.

_Bong-g-g--bong-g-g--bong-g-g...._

The young man hurried across the yard, shoulders stiff. So quickly that
the man in black, eyes mocking, was forced to stand aside at the very
door of the outhouse to permit him to enter.

The church bell and mounting vanished. With a clap of indignant thunder.

The man in black resumed his chair on the porch. The young man came
slowly back across the yard and sat on the steps.

After a few minutes the young man said, "That wasn't very funny."

"I hardly expected you to think so."

"This can go on for an awfully long time you know."

"I have," said the man in black, "an awfully long time. So do you."

"I think that it's rather a silly thing for you to be concerning
yourself with," the young man said. "After all, it failed to incite
these humans to any thoughts which could really be called sinful."

"Then it is an equally silly thing for _you_ to concern yourself with,
isn't it?"

"I do so because it disturbs humans at a time when they may be nearest
to God."

"I concern myself for the same reason."

       *       *       *       *       *

A non-existent half hour passed. The young man sat on the steps, his
white suit impeccable, face thoughtful. The man in black sat and smoked
and smirked. The three old men waited.

Out in the yard the outhouse stood, a battleground of good and evil.
Its coat of white paint gleamed in the sun, which still stood high
as a result of _timelessness_. Its red roof was a challenge. To the
young man, staring moodily, the crescent in the door seemed a mocking,
lopsided smile.

On the roof stood a new and larger mounting, containing a new and
larger cowbell, from which hung a new and heavier chain.

Once the young man looked upward, as if for guidance.

Once he sighed and shook his head, as if discouraged.

"One of us must win," he said finally.

"Always," the man in black nodded.

"If I destroy that bell, you will replace it."

"With a bigger one."

"If you replace it, I shall destroy it."

"And then I shall replace it again."

"Do you really feel," asked the young man, "that so small a purpose is
worth such an effort?"

"I might ask you the same question."

"Tiny building blocks may build a great edifice."

"The removal of one may contribute to its ruin."

The creek murmured. Out in back of the store, the bird in the elm sang
a hesitant note, and then was silent.

Charley Mason cleared his throat.

The man in black turned his hot, mocking gaze on Charley. Charley
closed his mouth so hard his teeth clicked.

The young man said, "You need not fear him, mortal--only his
temptations."

"Mister--" Charley said hesitantly.

"Yes?"

"Something sort of has me wondering."

"Yes?"

"Well--I've been watching you two go at it, and--well, it sort of looks
like this other feller has the edge on you right down the line. I mean,
like he was all confident, and you just don't know how to get around
him--"

The young man nodded somberly. "I have been waiting for you to make
that observation, human. It is true. Evil has only to _be_ ... has only
to _exist_ for its work to be half done. It is a pit; you have only
to fall into it. While to be good, you must exert yourself to climb
_out_ of the pit." He looked sadly at the smirking man in black. "He
walks confidently, for he requires no more than your acceptance of him,
your tolerance, your passivity, your apathy. How can such a dynamic
imbalance threaten him?... He must only _be_ to be strong; you must
_act_ to make him weak."

The young man got up and stretched his arms. He looked upward at the
sky again, and seemed to be listening. He shrugged a little.

"It has been pointed out to me," he said, "that I have demonstrated
sufficiently--now there are other matters to be attended to. I will
destroy the bell once again ... but mark these words well, humans: the
Dark One will create another--and it, like all his creations, will be
a potential for evil. Not a large evil, perhaps, in this case, nor
an evil in itself by the simple fact of its existence--rather his
creations represent the potential of evil _within yourselves_. After he
goes, I urge that you take down the bell and throw it away ... destroy
it ... for as you have seen he is powerless to prevent that. If he
creates another, cast it aside also. Keep doing so. The bell is but
the symbol, the temptation: the conquest of evil can take place only
in your own souls; you must _act_ in the face of that temptation. The
battleground is not this town, nor this yard, nor that structure, but
in _yourselves_. In you is the pit; in you must be the strength and
will to escape it. Do you understand?"

Three nods.

       *       *       *       *       *

The young man looked into their minds for the last time, to assure
himself of their purity.

And in Charley Mason's mind he saw a tiny, half-hidden thought that
struck him so forcibly that he almost smiled. Deep in Charley's mind,
beneath all his awe and wonder at the present situation, almost on a
subconscious level, Charley's sense of humor was still working--the
sense of humor that had come up with the cowbell joke in the first
place.

Now, in Charley's mind, was a solution for the present difficulty. Not
a solution, actually; for the realities of the problem were already
solved--solved in the minds of the three old men and their firm resolve
to do nothing ever again that would precipitate this kind of Heavenly
and Satanic tug-of-war in the arena of their souls.

But it would end this business of bell/no bell very nicely. And not
inappropriately, the young man thought. He would arrange the situation
just as Charley was mentally picturing it. And seeing what Charley had
in mind finally brought a smile to the young man's face.

He walked across the yard and entered the outhouse. The bell and chain
and mounting vanished. This time the young man was gone from sight
just a little longer than any time previously, and when he came out he
looked just a tiny bit expectant.

He waved in friendly fashion at the three men on the porch and rose
into the sky, faster and faster until he disappeared into the sun.

The man in black got up from his chair and knocked out his pipe on a
heel--or rather, where a heel should have been, for it was now evident
for the first time that he had black hooves instead of feet.

The wad of sulphur fell to the boards and smoked and stank.

"He was right, you know," he said. "The battle was in yourselves. And
I suppose I've lost. I seem to be losing more and more these days ...
though I'm by no means through. I suppose if I put up another bell,
you'll just take it down." He sighed and stretched his long black-clad
arms wide, as the young man had done. "Well, it's been diverting. I
think I _will_ put up another bell--just for the Hell of it."

He went down the steps, across the yard, into the outhouse.

An enormous cowbell appeared on the roof--a prince of cowbells, a
cowbell fit for the neck of Babe, the giant blue ox of Paul Bunyan.
From it hung an inch-thick chain.

The chain yanked down, the cowbell went _BLONGLE, BLONGLE, BLOK, BLOK,
BLOK!_--and Charley's plan which the young man had arranged before
leaving the confines of the outhouse became evident.

There was a loud flushing sound. A herculean flush. The walls collapsed
inward with a giant roar and an enormous swoosh and a gargantuan
gurgle. A moment later there was only a deep hole in the ground where
the outhouse had stood. And then the sides of the hole crumbled in to
form a shallow pit.

_Timelessness_ ended.

Luke scratched his head and stared from Sam over to Charley. "Did you
two dream the same thing I did?" his voice was awed.

Sam pointed over to where the pit made a raw scar in the ground.
"Weren't no dream. Or if it was, we're still asleep."

Charley had a laughing glint in his eye. "We're not asleep, and it
wasn't any dream. 'Specially the ending."

Luke and Sam looked at him puzzled for a moment. Then they both laughed
and Charley joined them.

"Bet that flush was the damndest joke Satan ever had played on him!"
Luke gasped, holding his sides.

"One _hell_ of a joke, Charley," Sam choked. "What I wouldn't give to
have seen his face!"

Charley agreed. He began to laugh even harder as he wondered if there
was any soap and water down in Gehenna. He had an idea Satan might be
praying for some.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BATTLE OF THE BELLS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
